.TH Cinterp 1 "12-2-2007"
.SH NAME
Cinterp \- Interpolate a CDL/netCDF input field on to a new grid
.SH USAGE
Cinterp \fB\-g\fR \fIgrid\-file\fR \fB\-o\fR \fIoutput\-file\fR
        \fB\-n\fR \fIvariable\-name\fR \fB\-u\fR \fIvariable\-units\fR
        \fB\-L\fR \fIvariable\-long\-name\fR
        \fB\-lnn | \-lgn | \-lng | \-lgg | \-cnn | \-cgn | \-cng | \-cgg\fR
        \fIinput-file\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
A script to interpolate a field to the pressure levels given by a \fIgrid\-file\fR. Input files can be in CDL or netCDF format. The variable found in the \fIgrid\-file\fR will not matter as only the pressure levels will be used. The type of interpolation must be specified from 1 of 8 options.

.SH OPTIONS

.LP

.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIgrid\-file\fR 
The file name of a CDL/netCDF file containing the required pressure levels.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIoutput\-file\fR 
The file name for the output CDL/netCDF file. Files will not be overwritten if they already exist.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIvariable\-name\fR
Name of the output field (same as file suffix).

.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIvariable\-units\fR
Units of the output field.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR \fIvariable\-long\-name\fR
Long name of the output field (up to 40 characters).

.TP
\fB\-lnn\fR
Interpolate the fields linearly in the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-lgn\fR
Interpolate the fields linearly in the logarithm of the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-lng\fR
Interpolate the logarithms of the fields linearly in the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-lgg\fR
Interpolate the logarithms of the fields linearly in the logarithm of the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-cnn\fR
Interpolate the fields using a cubic spline in the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-cgn\fR
Interpolate the fields using a cubic spline in the logarithm of the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-cng\fR
Interpolate the logarithms of the fields using a cubic spline in the pressure.

.TP
\fB\-cgg\fR
Interpolate the logarithms of the fields using a cubic spline in the logarithm of the pressure.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBCcdl2cdf\fR(1), \fBCcdf2cdl\fR(1), \fBCl_run_cdf\fR(1)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to "james.manners@metoffice.gov.uk" or "jean-claude.thelen@metoffice.gov.uk".

.SH AUTHOR
Original code by John M. Edwards, now supported by James Manners and Jean-Claude Thelen, Met. Office, Exeter, UK
