.TH Cscatter_average 1 "9-6-2014"
.SH NAME
Cscatter_average \- Average scattering properties across bands
.SH USAGE
Cscatter_average \fB\-s\fR \fIspectral\-file\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIinstrument\-file\fR]
                 \fB\-S\fR \fIsolar\-file\fR \fB| \-p\fR \fItemperature\fR \fB| \-d\fR \fItemperature\fR \fB| -u\fR
                 \fB\-P\fR \fImoments\fR \fB\-w|\-t\fR
                 \fB\-a\fR \fIfilename\fR \fB|\fR \fB\-f\fR \fIfit\fR \fIfit\-file\fR \fImon\-file\fR \fIdensity\fR
                 [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-x\fR \fIcommand\-file\fR] \fIinput\-file\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program reads a file of monochromatic single-scattering
data and averages them across the bands specified in a spectral
file. The averaged values may be written to
a file or fitted using a recognized parametrization.


.SH OPTIONS

.LP

.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIspectral\-file\fR 
Pathname of the spectral file (used to provide the spectral bands).

.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIsolar\-file\fR 
Weight using the solar spectrum in the given file (standard solar spectra are provided in $RAD_DATA/solar/).

.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fItemperature\fR 
Planckian weighting at the given temperature.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fItemperature\fR 
Differential planckian weighting at the given temperature.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Uniform weighting.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fImoments\fR
The number of moments of the phase function to be calculated.

.TP
\fB\-w\fR
Method of "thin averaging". The best method for optically thin clouds: a simple weighted mean.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Method of "thick averaging". The best method for optically thick clouds: the reflection coefficient of an infinite cloud is calculated and weighted, and the total extinction is weighted as opposed to the individual coefficients (see Edwards & Slingo 1996).

.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fIinstrument\-file\fR 
Pathname of the instrumental response function (optional).

.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fIfilename\fR 
Write the averaged optical properties to the given file.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIfit\fR \fIfit\-file\fR \fImon\-file\fR \fIdensity\fR
Parametrize the optical properties as a function of effective radius. For droplets the following values of \fIfit\fR are available:

 1 Slingo & Schrecker
 2 Ackerman & Stephens
 5 Pade approximation of the second order (third order for the extinction)
 6 Slingo & Schrecker extended to higher moments of the phase function
 7 Pade approximation of the second order (third order for the extinction) extended to higher moments of the phase function

For ice crystals the following values of \fIfit\fR are available:

 1 Slingo & Schrecker
 6 ADT-based scheme for ice crystals (anomalous diffraction theory)
 7 ADT-based scheme for ice crystals using 10th order polynomials
 11 Slingo & Schrecker extended to higher moments of the phase function
 12 Parametrization like Fu's extended to higher moments of the phase function

Output filenames are given for the parametrized fit (\fIfit\-file\fR) and monitoring information (\fImon\-file\fR). A density for the particles is given in kg/m^3.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Show verbose output from the Fortran routine (optional).

.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIcommand\-file\fR
Retain input to scatter_average_90 in a named file.

.TP
\fIinput\-file\fR
Input file containing the monochromatic single-scattering data as output by the \fBscatter\fR routine (see \fBCscatter\fR(1)).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBCscatter\fR(1), \fBCcorr_k\fR(1), \fBCl_run_cdf\fR(1), \fBCl_run_cdl\fR(1), \fBCinterp\fR(1), \fBCcdl2cdf\fR(1), \fBCcdf2cdl\fR(1)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to "james.manners@metoffice.gov.uk".

.SH AUTHOR
Original code by John M. Edwards, now supported by James Manners, Met. Office, Exeter, UK
